Add quality declaration for Cyclone DDS (#218)
ros2/rmw_cyclonedds: CYCLONEDDS_QUALITY_DECLARATION.md

This document is a declaration of software quality for the [Eclipse Cyclone DDS](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds) (hereafter simply "Cyclone DDS") external dependency imported by the `rmw_cyclonedds` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# Cyclone DDS Quality Declaration

> Cyclone DDS meets all the requirements of **Quality Level 2** category insofar as they are relevant to the `rmw_cyclonedds` package and ROS 2's use of `rmw_cyclonedds` and `cyclonedds`. Cyclone DDS meets all of the requirements of Quality Level 3 category for uses outside of the scope of ROS 2. The former follows from the implication that the features needed for a ROS 2 tier-1 DDS-based middleware must necessarily be supported, and those features being covered by tests.

Reviewer: > Cyclone DDS meets all of the requirements of Quality Level 3 category for uses outside of the scope of ROS 2

Quality Level 2?

Author: oops, yes. I have fixed

The requirements for the various quality level categories are defined by [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html). The rationale, notes and caveats for this claim are provided by the remainder of this document.

## Version Policy [1]

### Version Scheme [1.i]

> Cyclone DDS version numbers are organised as MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH where all three components are non-negative decimal numbers.  Version number policy follows the following rules:

Reviewer 2: For consistency with the rest of the document, use a single space after a period.

```suggestion
Cyclone DDS version numbers are organised as MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH where all three components are non-negative decimal numbers. Version number policy follows the following rules:
```

### ABI Stability Policy [1.v]

Cyclone DDS provides ABI stability for PATCH releases and strives to provide ABI stability for MINOR releases, for both Public and Evolving APIs. Cyclone DDS does not guarantee ABI stability for MINOR or MAJOR releases.

### ABI and ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.vi]

ROS 2 users do not interact directly with Cyclone DDS and the mapping of the RMW interface to the Cyclone DDS APIs provided by the `rmw_cyclonedds` package hides any API or ABI changes from ROS 2 users.

Based on the ABI Stability Policy, Cyclone DDS PATCH releases can be accepted as updates within a Released ROS Distribution without also requiring an update to the `rmw_cyclonedds` package. Cyclone DDS MINOR and MAJOR releases can, at least in principle, be accepted as updates within a Released ROS Distribution if the update is accompanied by an update of the `rmw_cyclonedds` package.

## Change Control [2]

Cyclone DDS follows the recommended guidelines of the [Eclipse Development Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/).

> The Eclipse Foundation carefully manages write access to project repositories, allowing only designated [Committers](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/#4_1_Committers), who have been voted for in elections overseen by the Eclipse Foundation, to commit changes.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I'm not really sure 'carefully' adds any useful information here, and in my opinion, comes across as an effort to make the process appear more robust than it is.

```suggestion
The Eclipse Foundation manages write access to project repositories, allowing only designated [Committers](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/#4_1_Committers), who have been voted for in elections overseen by the Eclipse Foundation, to commit changes.
```

> API and ABI stability is part of the review process. The Cyclone DDS project runs CI and tests and additionally run ROS CI for changes that are likely to affect ROS.

Reviewer: The second sentence is a little clunky here, I'm not sure what you are trying to say beyond "The Cyclone DDS project runs CI for changes that are likely to affect ROS"

Author: fixed it, thanks!

This document is a declaration of software quality for the [Eclipse Cyclone DDS](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds) (hereafter simply "Cyclone DDS") external dependency imported by the `rmw_cyclonedds` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# Cyclone DDS Quality Declaration

> Cyclone DDS meets all the requirements of **Quality Level 2** category insofar as they are relevant to the `rmw_cyclonedds` package and ROS 2's use of `rmw_cyclonedds` and `cyclonedds`. Cyclone DDS meets all of the requirements of Quality Level 3 category for uses outside of the scope of ROS 2. The latter can be argued based on the implication that the features needed for a ROS 2 tier-1 DDS-based middleware must necessarily be supported, and those features being covered by tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cyclone DDS meets all the requirements of **Quality Level 2** category insofar as they are relevant to the `rmw_cyclonedds` package and ROS 2's use of `rmw_cyclonedds` and `cyclonedds`. Cyclone DDS meets all of the requirements of Quality Level 3 category for uses outside of the scope of ROS 2. The former follows from the implication that the features needed for a ROS 2 tier-1 DDS-based middleware must necessarily be supported, and those features being covered by tests.
```

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

Symbols starting with `dds_` or `DDS_` and that are accessible after including only the top-level `dds.h` file, unless explicitly stated otherwise in a documentation comment, constitute the Public API.

Definitions available in installed include files that are outside this definitions are either internal or part of an Evolving API that is expected to eventually become part of the Public API. The distinction between Evolving APIs and internal definitions is currently not well-defined.

In the source repository, these header files reside with the modules that make up Cyclone DDS.

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]

Cyclone DDS provides Public API stability for PATCH and MINOR releases. Cyclone DDS strives to provide Public API stability for MAJOR releases. Cyclone DDS does not guarantee Public API stability for MAJOR releases.

Cyclone DDS provides Evolving API stability for PATCH releases and strives to provide Evolving API stability for MINOR releases. Cyclone DDS does not guarantee Evolving API stability for MINOR and MAJOR releases.

> The RMW interface is what ROS 2 deals with, and for a variety of reasons it may be decided to rely on unstable interfaces (or even implementation details), to better support ROS 2's design decisions that do not fit so well with DDS. Given ROS 2's importance to Cyclone DDS the stable API will slowly to support all, but without a defined time-line for that to happen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The RMW interface is what ROS 2 deals with, and for a variety of reasons it may be decided to rely on unstable interfaces (or even implementation details), to better support ROS 2's design decisions that do not fit so well with DDS. Given ROS 2's importance to Cyclone DDS the Public API is expected to eventually cover all of ROS 2's needs, but without a defined time-line for that to happen.
```

## Change Control [2]

Cyclone DDS follows the recommended guidelines of the [Eclipse Development Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/).

The Eclipse Foundation carefully manages write access to project repositories, allowing only designated [Committers](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/#4_1_Committers), who have been voted for in elections overseen by the Eclipse Foundation, to commit changes.

API and ABI stability is part of the review process. The Cyclone DDS project runs CI and tests and additionally run ROS CI for changes that are likely to affect ROS.

### Change Requests [2.i]

All changes occur through a pull request.

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [Eclipse Foundation's DCO policy](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/DCO.php). Eclipse projects furthermore require that an [Eclipse Contributor Agreement](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/ECA.php) is on file with the Eclipse Foundation.

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

> All pull requests will be peer-reviewed except when no-one is able to provide a review for a PR introduced by a Committer. Check [Eclipse Developer Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/) for additional information, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All pull requests must psss peer-review except when no-one is able to provide a review for a PR introduced by a Committer. Check [Eclipse Developer Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/) for additional information.
```

The Cyclone DDS repository also includes a [`LICENSE`](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/LICENSE) file with the full terms.

There is some third-party content included with Cyclone DDS which is licensed as Zlib, New BSD, and Public Domain.
Details can also be found in the included [`NOTICE`](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/NOTICE.md#third-party-content) document.

### Copyright Statement [3.iv]

The Cyclone DDS documentation includes a [policy](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/NOTICE.md#copyright) regarding content copyright, each of the source files containing code include a copyright statement with the license information in the file's header.

## Testing [4]

Some directories within the Cyclone DDS source tree contain subdirectories for test code.
In all, the test code appears to comprise approximately 25% of the codebase.

### Feature Testing [4.i]

Each feature in Cyclone DDS has corresponding tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in separate directories next to the sources. 
New features are required to have tests before being added.

> A substantial amount of the tests found throughout the source tree appear to verify functionality of various features of Cyclone DDS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A substantial amount of the tests found throughout the source tree verify functionality of various features of Cyclone DDS.
```

However the lack of a complete feature list (see section [3.i]) makes it difficult to analyze the breadth of the tests.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

Each part of the public API has tests, and new additions or changes to the public API require tests before being added. 
The tests aim to cover both typical usage and corner cases.
There are some tests throughout the Cyclone DDS source tree which specifically target the public API.
In principle the entire interface does get tested, and in reality it is pretty close.

> The sentence following this one in the document is a true statement (even if I consider "some" here an unusual choice of words) in that the lack of proper requirements and how they relate to tests, as well as the current lack of analysis of which parts of the code get hit by tests do make it hard to measure the extent of the tests.

Reviewer 3: This looks like an earlier review comment that accidentally made its way in.

There are no linters enabled for the Cyclone DDS repository.

Coding style is considered and enforced in the review of all CyconeDDS pull requests.
Contributors are regularly asked to rewrite or reformat their code contributions before pull requests are accepted. 
This is a matter of public record in the CycloneDDS pull request history.  

## Dependencies [5]

### Direct Runtime ROS Dependencies [5.i]

As an external dependency, there are no ROS dependencies in Cyclone DDS.

### Optional Direct Runtime ROS Dependencies [5.ii]

As an external dependency, there are no ROS dependencies in Cyclone DDS.

### Direct Runtime non-ROS Dependency [5.iii]

The only runtime dependency of Cyclone DDS is [OpenSSL](https://openssl.org), a widely-used secure communications suite.
If Cyclone DDS is built without security enabled, the product has no runtime dependencies.

> [Eclipse Zenoh](http://zenoh.io) is optional non-ROS dependency of Cyclone DDS providing: scalable, fault tolerant DDS discovery with "need to know" discovery matching of endpoints; ROS2 DDS to ROS2 DDS routing across a mesh of Zenoh nodes; ROS 2 DDS to ROS 2 DDS bridging across wireless WiFi, LoRa, LTE, 5G, satellite; ROS 2 DDS routing to/from cloud; microcontroller support; `rmw_zenoh` for microROS drop-in replacment for DDS-XRCE.

Reviewer 3: No: Cyclone doesn't in any require the presence of Zenoh. That it can cooperate with it is very nice (well, more than just "nice", really) but that doesn't make it a dependency.

> # `CycloneDDS` Quality Declaration

Reviewer 3: The correct form is "Eclipse Cyclone DDS", which should be spelled out here in full. It can then be abbreviated to Cyclone DDS in the rest of the document.

This quality declaration claims that `CycloneDDS` is in the **Quality Level 3** category.

[The Eclipse Foundation](https://eclipse.org)'s `CycloneDDS` project meets a substantial number of the criteria stated for software quality.

> The developers have taken many steps to ensure that `CycloneDDS` is a software product which can be relied upon, however there is a significant lack of documentation regarding the interpretation of versions, features, and testing.

Reviewer: I think you've shown that there isn't a significant documentation lack anymore and this sentence can be updated. Also, to update the sentence below, what do you feel is required in order to get to QL 2 or even QL 1?

Author: @brawner update, thanks! We need to go through the QL table again row by row to ascertain current level and what work remains.

### Version Scheme [1.i]

> `CycloneDDS` versioning follows the standard semantic versioning except that major version 0 is also considered stable. `CycloneDDS` was already a stable code base when it was contributed to [The Eclipse Foundation](https://eclipse.org)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`CycloneDDS` versioning follows the following rules:
```

The issue here is that this is *not* exactly what [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) prescribes. Instead, it is an old, proven model for software versioning that has worked well for many systems requiring stable versions to build on with a good sense of the risk involved in taking a new version based on no more than what numbers have been incremented.

Author: updated.

> * MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes.

Reviewer: I don't think this makes sense as generic second person. The reader of this document is generally trying to understand how the package's maintainers control versioning, not how to version the package itself. I'd suggest something along the lines of:

i.e., "The MAJOR version shall be incremented when an incompatible API change is made"

Author: ok, thanks!

* MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner. MINOR is source compatible (we strive to maintain binary compatibility as well).
* PATCH version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes. PATCH is binary compatible.

Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format.

> This is what has been the case and we see no reason not to follow this going forward.

Reviewer: This sentence can probably be removed, as it doesn't 'declare' anything concrete the reader can independently verify.

Author: which sentence?

Reviewer: > This is what has been the case and we see no reason not to follow this going forward.

Author: ok, thanks!

> Thus far, there’s been no MINOR release that has broken binary compatibility. And note that this only holds for the stable interface. Along with bumping MAJOR to 1, this policy will be reconsidered and it may be decided to guarantee binary compatibility for MINOR versions is as well.

Reviewer: Unless you're committing to this now, I think these sentences can be removed. Add it in when you are ready to commit to that policy.

Author: @ThijsSassen @eboasson can we commit to that policy?

Author: @eboasson has reviewed and rewritten, which has been merged.

> The CMake sources configure the compatibility mode to [`SameMajorVersion`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/CMakePackageConfigHelpers.html#generating-a-package-version-file), shows that breaking changes are accompanied by a change to the `MAJOR` version part.

Reviewer 3: I would delete this line and the next, I don't see what this adds.

Author: ok, I think I edited it correctly. let me know if not.

Here is information in the [Releases section](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#release) of the Eclipse project handbook which discusses _Major_, _Minor_, and _Service_ release criteria.

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`CycloneDDS` is at a stable version. The current version can be found in its [package.xml](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/package.xml), and its change history can be found in its [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/CHANGELOG.rst).

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

> All symbols in the installed headers are considered part of the public API. In the source repository, these header files reside with each of the modules that make up CycloneDDS.

Author: incorporated your suggestion.

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]

> `CycloneDDS` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released. It conforms to the [Releases section](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#release) of the Eclipse project handbook which states that releases which include breaking API changes are considered "Major".

Reviewer: Just to back up what @eboasson is saying here, mentions of ROS compatibility should be moved to section 1.vi. This section just needs to state that the API will remain stable within a major release. Basically, what you say in 1.v but swap ABI for API.

> `CycloneDDS` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released. It conforms to the [Releases section](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#release) of the Eclipse project handbook which states that releases which include breaking API changes are considered "Major".

Author: @brawner @eboasson did I get the edits right?

> `CycloneDDS` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released. It conforms to the [Releases section](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#release) of the Eclipse project handbook which states that releases which include breaking API changes are considered "Major".

Author: @eboasson @brawner incorporated both of your input

### ABI Stability Policy [1.v]

> `CycloneDDS` provides ABI stability for PATCH release. `CycloneDDS` strives to provide ABI stability for MINOR release. `CycloneDDS` not guarantee ABI stability for MAJOR release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CycloneDDS` provides ABI stability for PATCH releases. `CycloneDDS` strives to provide ABI stability for MINOR releases. MAJOR releases are unlikely to be ABI stable.
```

Is ABI stability checked somehow?

Author: @ThijsSassen @eboasson can you comment on @brawner's question?

### ABI and ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.vi]

> `CycloneDDS` will not break API nor ABI within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released. 

Author: ok, incorporated.

As an external package, `CycloneDDS` is not released on the same cadence as ROS.
Changes to the branch of the `CycloneDDS` repository that is targeted by a given ROS release would be picked up by development builds of that ROS release.

## Change Control [2]

`CycloneDDS` follows the recommended guidelines of the [Eclipse Development Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/).

> For the RMW layer, we follow the ROS core packages process. For Eclipse Cyclone DDS, we ensure the stability within the project through review, CI and tests and additionally run ROS CI for changes that are likely to affect ROS.

Reviewer 3: GIven what is stated in line 1 of the document, the first sentence of this paragraph is superfluous.

All commits must be signed by the author and there must be an [Eclipse Contributor Agreement](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/ECA.php) on file with the Eclipse Foundation.

Pull requests are required to pass all tests in the CI system, unless Committers consider there is sufficient evidence that a failure is the result of a mishap unrelated to the change. Pull requests are only merged if the Committers deem it of acceptable quality and provide sufficient coverage of new functionality or proof of a bug fix via tests.

Only the Committers have write access to the repository and they are voted for in elections monitored by the Eclipse Foundation staff.

### Change Requests [2.i]

> All changes will occur through a pull request, check ROS 2 Developer Guide for additional information.

Reviewer 3: Not the ROS 2 developer guid but the process described in the [Eclipse Handbook](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#contributing-contributors)

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

> This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/DCO.php).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [Eclipse's DCO policy](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/DCO.php).
```

Author: thanks!

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

> All pull requests will be peer-reviewed, check [Eclipse Developer Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/) for additional information.

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately this is self-evidently not the case — I wish there were meaningful reviews for all, but goal has proven elusive. Thus:

* Peer reviews are required for all pull requests from non-Committers and highly encouraged for all pull requests. The Committers are trusted to not merge any pull request without a review if there is a reasonably likelihood that such a review can be performed within a reasonable timeframe.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

> All pull requests must pass CI on all tier 1 platforms

Reviewer 3: These are tests results for the RMW layer on ROS CI system. Cyclone DDS gets built & tested on the ROS CI as well and I'm fine with referencing them, but then the paths should point to the Cyclone DDS tests, which are not so neatly organized in the reports: they are under projectroot.src.*, e.g.:

https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/projectroot.src.core.ddsc/

If a small change suffices to get the results under "cyclonedds" in the CI system, I'd be happy to merge that.

I would argue that, in the context of this document, these are secondary: the ones run by the Cyclone DDS project on Travis CI are the primary reference.

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)

Incoming pull requests automatically trigger continuous integration testing and must run successfully to be merged.
Automated testing runs for:

> - Ubuntu Xenial with gcc 8 and Clang 7.0.0

Reviewer 3: We've recently updated the Linux and macOS platforms to:
* Ubuntu bionic with gcc 10 and clang 10;
* macOS 10.15 (Catalina) with Xcode 11.6

You might want to add a link as well: https://travis-ci.com/github/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds

- macOS Mojave with Xcode 11.1
- macOS Sierra with Xcode 9
- Windows Server semi-annual release with Visual Studio 2017

### Documentation Policy [2.v]
All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

## Documentation [3]

### Feature Documentation [3.i]

> [Project documentation](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/docs/dev/modules.md#feature-discovery) states that the features available in the product are "largely dynamic" based on compile-time discovery.

Reviewer 3: I would say this is a mischaracterization of the situation. There are few things that can be disabled at compile time, either
* explicitly (e.g., DEADLINE support)
* because some prerequisites are missing (e.g., the security plugins depend on OpenSSL, and in the absence of it, those won't be built)
* platform dependent features auto-discovered at build-time (e.g., IPv6 support, availability of DNS — more of an embedded thing than for the tier platforms of ROS)

In the context of ROS 2 builds, none of those are an issue and all features are available always.

### Feature Testing [4.i]

Each feature in `CycloneDDS` has corresponding tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in separate directories next to the sources. New features are required to have tests before being added.

> Currently nightly results can be seen here:

Reviewer 3: Again, this is the RMW layer. It would be good to point to Travis CI here, too.

* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)

A substantial amount of the tests found throughout the source tree appear to verify functionality of various features of `CycloneDDS`.
However the lack of a complete feature list (see section [3.i]) makes it difficult to analyze the breadth of the tests.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

> Each part of the public API has tests, and new additions or changes to the public API require tests before being added. The tests aim to cover both typical usage and corner cases, but are quantified by contributing to code coverage.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand what the "quantified by contributing to code coverage" means. In principle the entire interface does get tested, and in reality it is pretty close.

The sentence following this one in the document is a true statement (even if I consider "some" here an unusual choice of words) in that the lack of proper requirements and how they relate to tests, as well as the current lack of analysis of which parts of the code get hit by tests do make it hard to measure the extent of the tests.

There are some tests throughout the `CycloneDDS` source tree which specifically target the public API, but there are no policies or mechanisms to discover and measure which tests target the public API or how much of the public API is covered by the existing tests.

### Coverage [4.iii]

> There is no test coverage tracking in `CycloneDDS`. Automated coverage runs are being added to the CI to show coverage.

Reviewer: Update this when those coverage jobs are added. For now just leave it as is.

Author: @brawner test coverage has been added.

### Performance [4.iv]

> `CycloneDDS` performance is verifiably good and regression free per ROS Tooling WG's [nightly CI performance tests](http://build.ros2.org/job/Fci__nightly-performance_ubuntu_focal_amd64/ ).

Reviewer: It's less important to state that the performance is strong, and it's probably close to impossible to say that performance is regression free. Instead, in this section, we just want to see that performance is tracked so that performance regressions can be resolved. Performance regressions don't even need to be fixed if the code that introduced them is reasonable to have. Just so long as they are found as part of the development process and appropriate resolutions identified.

How are these nightly jobs incorporated into cyclonedds development?

Author: @brawner our experience this past year is that Open Robotics CI testing infrastructure and tests are not reliable. More hours are spent debugging OR CI testing infrastructure and tests than "actual" cyclonedds issues. Not sure if the OR CI can be a source of measurement for reliably ascertaining quality and performance. We are very eager for OR CI to be improved. I've brought this up a few times in ROS Tooling WG.

Though the `CycloneDDS` [documentation](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds#performance) discusses the product's performance and discusses what metrics describe it, very few tests seem to validate the given statistics or ensure that the performance does not regress.

> One of the [example projects](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/15e68152c9d14105e87ab1afc7e5af9c9589f776/examples/throughput/readme.rst) can be used to measure the throughput of the product, but does not provide a mechanism for analyzing resource usage or latency.

Reviewer 3: This should no longer be referenced, the tool to use is [ddsperf](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/tree/master/src/tools/ddsperf).

While there are no automated, public tests or results (more due to a lack of reliable infrastructure than to policy), there is evidence in PRs that it does get taken into account (see, e.g., https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/pull/558). Finally, `ddsperf` is used to check for performance regressions regularly and before releases.

Author: updated per @eboasson

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

> `CycloneDDS` uses and passes all the ROS2 standard linters and static analysis tools for a C++ package as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters-and-static-analysis). Passing implies there are no linter/static errors when testing against CI of supported platforms.

Reviewer 3: This (up to and including the list of nightly results) relates to the RMW layer, not to Cyclone DDS itself and should be removed.

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)

> `CycloneDDS` has automated daily [Synopsys Coverity static code analysis](https://www.synopsys.com/software-integrity/security-testing/static-analysis-sast.html) with public results that can be seen [here](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/eclipse-cyclonedds-cyclonedds). `CycloneDDS` defect density is 0.05 per 1,000 lines of code as of Aug 11th 2020. For comparison the average defect density of open source software projects of similar size is 0.5.

Reviewer: For longer paragraphs like this, can you put one sentence per line. It can make reviewing diffs a bit simpler.

Author: sure!

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

Each part of the public API has tests, and new additions or changes to the public API require tests before being added. 
The tests aim to cover both typical usage and corner cases.
There are some tests throughout the `CycloneDDS` source tree which specifically target the public API, but there are no policies or mechanisms to discover and measure which tests target the public API or how much of the public API is covered by the existing tests.

### Coverage [4.iii]

`CycloneDDS` has automated [Codecov](https://codecov.io) test coverage which can be seen [here](https://codecov.io/github/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds?branch=master).
New changes are required to include tests coverage.

### Performance [4.iv]

While there are no automated, public tests or results (more due Open Robotics lacking reliable ros2 CI infrastructure than to policy), there is evidence in PRs that performance does get taken into account (see, e.g., eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds#558). 

> Finally, `ddsperf` is used to check for performance regressions regularly and before releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ddsperf` is used to check for performance regressions regularly and before releases.
```

## Platform Support [6]

The `CycloneDDS` [repository documentation](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/blob/master/README.md#building-eclipse-cyclone-dds) states that Linux, Mac and Windows 10 are supported.

> Platform version requirements are not explicitly stated, nor are all of the minimum build tool versions.

Reviewer 3: Basically, the minimum versions are not known exactly. For Linux and macOS, ancient versions will still do the trick. For evidence, I suppose it being possible to build on [Solaris 2.6 on SPARCv8](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/tree/master/ports/solaris2.6) (given pre-generated header files and IDL output) is a fair indication.

CMake 3.7, Java 1.8 and Maven 3.5 are new enough.

So while this statement is true, it is a disingenious one. (@joespeed I'm aware of the fact that you chose to delete it.)

Author: correct.

> Currently nightly results can be seen here:

Reviewer 3: Again these are test reports for the RMW layer. That implies Cyclone DDS supports the platform, but I don't think these exact links are the right place to point to.

Author: will reference cyclonedds, cyclonecdds-cxx CI travis testing & OR CI testing
https://travis-ci.com/github/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds

* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rmw_cyclonedds_cpp/)

## Security [7]

### Vulnerability Disclosure Policy [7.i]

> This package conforms to the Vulnerability Disclosure Policy in REP-2006. The Eclipse Project Handbook states the project's vulnerability disclosure policy in detail.The Eclipse Project Handbook states the project's [vulnerability disclosure policy](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#vulnerability-disclosure) in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package conforms to the Vulnerability Disclosure Policy in REP-2006. The Eclipse Project Handbook states the project's vulnerability disclosure policy in detail. The Eclipse Project Handbook states the project's [vulnerability disclosure policy](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#vulnerability-disclosure) in detail.
```
